# Real-time Weed Detection based on Mobile Devices
The recent development in Deep Learning has provided significant improvement for object detection in the Computer Vision field. To achieve higher accuracy, deeper and more complicated networks have been created, which makes applying advanced technologies and algorithms on a mobile device more challenging due to their limited computational capability.
In this project, we train several state-of-the-art object detection models using transfer learning methodology for weed detection based on our own weed datasets. Besides, we implement and evaluate these models for real-time detection of California thistle in terms of accuracy, latency and size, and introduce TensorFlow Lite to build small, low-latency models for real-time inference on Raspberry Pi. Amongst all the experiments conducted, the results show the feasibility of current object detection algorithms for real-time weed detection in a mobile environment, with a good tradeoff between the accuracy and the latency.
We also consider working on other weed types such as Ragward and the performance metrics of other types can then be compared and contrasted as well.  We also plan to study the IoT components that can contribute to the design of a weed detection IoT application that can be deployed on the internet. Working on the weed GIS system based on achieving quantifying results such as weed-grass coverage ratio and weed growth prediction is of other research interests. Also, studying the M2M communications for a framework of a weed detection software, the connections to other farming systems (other farming tasks related to the weed detection software), working on model efficiency, and performance metrics are of our other interests
